{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc0\deff1{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}
{\f2\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\itap0\qc\f1\fs22 Normal;}{\*\cs10\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s16\itap0\f0\fs24 [Normal];}}
{\*\generator TX_RTF32 11.0.401.501;}
\deftab1134\paperw12700\paperh16443\margl567\margt567\margr567\margb567\pard\itap0\qc\plain\f0\fs20\b Exotic Costa Rica\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f1\fs20\par\plain\f0\fs20 Definitely, Costa Rica is an exotic country, which offers to you a great variety of nature; with this program, you will visit the\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3  north plains where the impressive Arenal Volcano will welcome you with its majestic, almost perfect volcanic cone. In addition, you will be delighted at \plain\f0\fs20 Tabacon Hot Springs where you will \plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 find several pools that flow across Tabacon River and are heated directly from the volcanic veins of the Arenal Volcano. The next stop will be Monteverde. It is an area of \loch\f0\hich\f0\u8203\u8203 great wealth where 3,021 species are known. Including 755 species of trees, besides being considered site on the planet with the greatest diversity of orchids. Over 500 species, of which there are 34 endemics. No doubt a paradise for nature lovers, and at night you will see that a new world wakes up in the cloud forest offering a unique experience of contact with nature. Then, you will visit Manuel Antonio, a paradise that mixes lovely white sand beaches with jungle and rain forest full of wildlife. Manuel Antonio National Park, since it has a charming combination of lush tropical forest and beautiful beaches with clear waters listed on Trip Advisor (Travellers Choice) as the best beach in Central America and its park has been recognized by Forbes Magazine as one of the twelve most beautiful national parks in the world. Finally, you will enjoy in a unique place in the whole world, Corcovado National Park surrounding, this area of the South Pacific of Costa Rica is currently called "The Final Frontier" or "The Navel of Life\'94, as described by National Geographic as "the most biologically intense place on Earth". This region is home of 350 species of birds, 150 species of mammals, over 100 species of reptiles and amphibians, about 5500 insects, and 500 species of trees. Staying in this area will allow you to have a deeper contact with nature, especially for those seeking a unique and eco- tourism vacation.\plain\f1\fs20\par\par\plain\f0\fs20\b\ul Program Summary:\par\plain\f0\fs20 Day 1:\tab San Jos\loch\f0\hich\f0\'e9\par Day 2:\tab Arenal Volcano // Arenal Volcano & Tabacon Hot Springs\par Day 3: \tab Arenal Volcano\par Day 4:\tab Monteverde // Night Walk Tour in Monteverde Biological Reserve\par Day 5:\tab Monteverde\par Day 6:\tab Manuel Antonio\par Day 7:\tab Manuel Antonio // Manuel Antonio National Park\par Day 8:\tab Corcovado\par Day 9:\tab Corcovado // Corcovado National Park\par Day 10:\tab Corcovado // Ca\'f1o Island\par Day 11: San Jos\'e9\par Day 12: Departure SJO\par\plain\f1\fs20\par\pard\itap0\qc\plain\f0\fs20\b DAY BY DAY ITINERARY\plain\f1\fs20\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f1\fs20\b\par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 1:\tab SJO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT\loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 SAN JOSE\plain\f1\fs20\par\plain\f0\fs20 Upon your arrival at SJO International Airport, a Swiss Travel representative will meet and greet you, and he will provide you with all the necessary documentation you will need during your vacation. Then, you will be transferred to your selected hotel in San Jose.\par\par  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 2:\tab SAN JOSE \loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 VOLCAN ARENAL\tab\tab\tab           Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner\plain\f1\fs20\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20 The impressive Arenal Volcano is a natural wonder located in the northern part of the country, a place you should definitely go to during your visit to Costa Rica. Today, we will move from San Jose to the plains on the north of the country, stopping along the way to visit the famous town of Sarchi, known internationally for its hardworking artisans who give fame to this village as "The Cradle of Costa Rican Crafts." Our journey will continue through the plantations of various agricultural products, ornamental plants and cattle ranches to the village of La Fortuna, where we will be delighted by a delicious lunch in a cozy restaurant. If the weather allows it, you will be able to enjoy a magnify view to the impressive Arenal Volcano. After lunch, we will continue to the impressive Tabacon hot springs. Here, you will find several pools that flow across Tabacon River and are heated directly from the volcanic veins of the Arenal Volcano. These soothing waterfalls will make you feel rejuvenated due to all the benefits they provide. These springs help improve blood circulation and oxygenation, removes toxins from the body, stimulate metabolism, help digestion, promote relaxation and improve the functioning of the nervous system, which make Tabacon a must-visit destination. The exotic gardens that surround this place will definitely make you enjoy a natural and unique environment that will make you feel completely stress free. Finally, we will enjoy a delicious dinner and then you will be transferred to your selected hotel where they will stay for the next two nights.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 3:\tab VOLCAN ARENAL\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\plain\f1\fs20\par\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 This day is at your leisure to enjoy the tourist attractions (extra cost) around the Arenal Volcano. If you want to explore the area in a more exciting way, we recommend you the Sky Tram & Sky Trek. This tour combines the climbing to the top of the mountain by Sky Tram enjoying beautiful scenery of Arenal Lake, while pulleys subject to transverse cables make the descent from one mountain to another, to feel the adventure all over your body! If you prefer a quieter excursion and admire the natural beauty of the northern plains, we recommend a visit to Arenal Hanging Bridges, a system of trails immersed in the rainforest where you will be able to walk along 16 hanging bridges. Bridges and trails were built considering all type of visitors and their security. This tour is adorned with magnificent views of the impressive Arenal Volcano and you will regularly find a huge variety of species such as mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds and insects making it one of the most advantageous visits in the area.\par\par\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 4:\tab ARENAL VOLCANO\loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 MONTEVERDE\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 At mid-morning, the transfer to Monteverde cloud forest is scheduled. This transfer includes a boat ride across the majestic Lake Arenal, the largest in the country, where you can watch many birds visiting the lake in search of food. Hills and forestlands, as well as the impressive Arenal Volcano cone surround this place. Across the lake, it begins the climbing to the tops of the mountains; this final part of the transfer is done on dirt roads, so you will have more opportunity to enjoy the beautiful rural scenery of the mountains on this region.\par Afterwards, we will get closer to the mountains where you will enjoy the beautiful rural towns that adorn the gravel road and as they are approaching the high end, you can feel a slight change in temperature since this place is located more than 1300 meters above sea level. Costa Rica represents 4% of the plant species on the planet and highland cloud forests of Monteverde is an area of \loch\f0\hich\f0\u8203\u8203 great wealth where 3,021 species are known, including 755 species of trees, besides being considered site on the planet with the greatest diversity of orchids. Over 500 species, of which there are 34 endemics, no doubt a paradise for nature lovers.\par Registration at selected hotel where they will stay for the next two nights will be done.\par At the end of the afternoon, it will be time to visit Monteverde Cloud Forest Biological Reserve. You can take a walk in a heavenly forest where you can enjoy a journey full of many species. There, you will see that a new world wakes up in the cloud forest offering a unique experience of contact with nature, in company of a guide that will show you the most interesting details of this interesting ecosystem.\par\plain\f1\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 5:\tab MONTEVERDE\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\plain\f1\fs20\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 Day at your leisure to explore on your own around the Monteverde Cloud Forest characterized by its spectacular protected forests, which are home to a rich biodiversity of flora and fauna. If you prefer to add adrenaline to your trip, you can enjoy adventure activities like the Sky Walk, which is a network of hanging bridges built in the forest trails, horseback riding, or Sky Trek Canopy tour. In addition, you can enjoy a cultural experience by visiting the Trapiche, a butterfly garden, or CASEM, which is a women's cooperative in the area, offering crafts designed by housewives\loch\f0\hich\f0\'92 heads of household. Also for nature lovers, it is the ideal place for bird watching, being the most famous of these the beautiful quetzal. Whatever your preference is, Monteverde will make your experience unforgettable and 100 % natural.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 6:\tab MONTEVERDE \loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 MANUEL ANTONIO\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 This day we will continue to one of the most beautiful areas of Costa Rica's central Pacific, Manuel Antonio area. As we descend from the mountains of the cloud forest to the shoreward, you will feel a warm change in temperature and the landscapes will be adorned by various beaches along the Pacific coast to Manuel Antonio, which is a paradise that mixes lovely white sand beaches with jungle and rain forest full of wildlife. The vast variety of activities to do and places to visit in the area definitely adds value to your experience. This tropical place is one of the main attractions in Costa Rica, and one of the icons of ecotourism in the country. \par Registration and accommodation for the next two nights at the selected hotel will be done.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 7:\tab MANUEL ANTONIO\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\plain\f1\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 Today you will visit the Manuel Antonio National Park (closed on Mondays). Since it has, a charming combination of lush tropical forest and beautiful beaches with clear waters listed on Trip Advisor (Travellers Choice) as the best beach in Central America and its park has been recognized by Forbes Magazine as one of the twelve most beautiful national parks in the world. Inside the park, there is a wide variety of vegetation, lagoons, mangroves, 109 species of mammals and 184 bird species. You can see several species of birds, reptiles and monkeys including the three-toed sloth. Moreover, the rest of the day is at your leisure to enjoy the hotel facilities or to explore the area on your own.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 8:\tab MANUEL ANTONIO \loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 CORCOVADO\tab\tab\tab           Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 After breakfast, we will continue to the South Pacific area of Costa Rica, specifically the area of Sierpe. Upon arrival, a boat will take you across the river and the sea to the selected Lodge. You will stay in the next three nights in Corcovado. This area of the South Pacific of Costa Rica is currently called "The Final Frontier" or "The Navel of Life\loch\f0\hich\f0\'94, as described by National Geographic as "the most biologically intense place on Earth". This region is home of 350 species of birds, 150 species of mammals, over 100 species of reptiles and amphibians, about 5500 insects, and 500 species of trees. Staying in this area will allow you to have a deeper contact with nature, especially for those seeking a unique and eco- tourism vacation.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 9:\tab CORCOVADO\tab\tab\tab\tab           Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner\plain\f1\fs20\par\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 After Breakfast, we will enjoy an excursion to Corcovado National Park, located in the Osa Peninsula. This is a wonderful opportunity to see the primary and secondary forest, as well as a wide variety of flora and fauna. The boat trip to the ranger station takes approximately 30 minutes, but it depends on the weather and the sea. Whenever possible, as we approach to the park entrance, your guide will try to show you the ocean whales, dolphins, or other marine species. The first part of the trail is a steep hill, through the secondary jungle. Large slabs of tree trunk are strategically located for an easier walk on the ground. Just before reaching the plateau, on your left side, there will be a viewpoint overlooking the resort and the Pacific Ocean. While enjoying a light lunch on the veranda and a short break, you will have the opportunity to take stunning shots, and from this point, you will be able to see whales and / or dolphins.\par\par\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 10:\tab  CORCOVADO\tab\tab\tab\tab           Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner\plain\f1\fs20\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 This morning we will enjoy visiting Ca\loch\f0\hich\f0\'f1o Island Biological Reserve, which is located just 12 nautical miles from the coastline. The boat ride to the island takes about 45 minutes, but it depends on the weather, sea and other conditions. The island, which is located 90 meters above sea level, rises to a wide plateau, which is covered with a forest of evergreen high. On the island, it is possible to observe the stone spheres made by the first civilizations that inhabited the area. Right in front of the ranger station, there is a beach area most often used to relax and have fun. The real beauty of Ca\'f1o Island is not in their land, but underwater, as it is surrounded by five platforms of coral reefs, where experts have identified more than 15 species of stony corals. The dark volcanic rock is home to many impressive species of marine flora and fauna. The water is relatively shallow and suitable for snorkeling, allowing an excellent opportunity to become familiar with marine life surrounding Ca\'f1o Island.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 11:\tab  CORCOVADO \loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 SAN JOSE\tab\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\par\pard\itap0\qj\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 The sea and land transfer will take you back to Drake airstrip, to take a domestic flight to San Jose. Upon arrival, a representative from Swiss Travel will take you to the hotel in San Jose. Depending on your arrival in San Jose, you can have some free time to explore on your own the capital of the country.\par\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f0\fs20  \par\plain\f0\fs20\b Day 12:\tab  SAN JOSE \loch\f0\hich\f0\'96 SJO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT\tab\tab\tab Breakfast\par\plain\f0\fs20\cb3\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat3 After an unforgettable visit to Costa Rica, it is scheduled the transfer from your selected hotel in San Jose to SJO International Airport to board your flight back home\plain\f1\fs20\b\par\pard\itap0\qc\plain\f0\fs20\b END OF SERVICES\par\pard\itap0\qj\plain\f1\fs20\par\par\pard\itap0\par }